how has my art evolved over time I can
say that safely it's it was just a thing
I did to take a break from life for many
years it was I was a teacher and a
school administrator for many many years
and art was what I did to sort of
decompress and so I went and I did a
little dabbling and did a little collage
it was just for myself it really didn't
have any great importance other than
self-satisfaction it made me feel good
to do it and in two thousand when I
retired formerly from teaching I just
said okay now is the time and we started
traveling some and I saw things and
imagined images that just spoke to me I
saw things and thought oh I need to do
something with that so my art just began
sort of for me all over again when I
started taking it seriously and I
thought whatever you think you know when
you start changes every day and every
five years so i can only say that what i
thought i knew how to do ten years ago
is only compounded by what i know now
and will be compounded by more 10 years
from now so it evolved every day what I
see translates into what I paint and the
colors especially as they change through
the year change in my paintings though
it does change every day my garden is my
strongest influence I think Gardens
change every day so you can walk out
into the garden and one day it actually
looks like everything's under glass bead
gel because it has little dew drops all
over the top of it and that inspires me
to go in play with glass bead gel or one
day the irises bloom and I see so
clearly the forms and shapes in the
flowers one day the bees are creating a
fervor around my fennel plants when
there
and I think it's almost like confetti in
the air and it makes me want to go in
and do some kind of stenciling I mean
it's all about the color and the pattern
that you run into every day when you're
walking through the garden so that's one
of my biggest inspiration travel is
another I can see something that's
magical and want to come back and live
it again and I can do that with my art I
don't start with a plan for the most
part unless it's a commission that
somebody says to me I want you to paint
this in these colors then the plan is
literally to start with something that I
love and if it's a color or pattern or a
piece of paper or a shape and just move
forward and let the painting speak to me
I don't plan it in advance it plans me
if you're just starting out in acrylics
and you think what do I really need to
get started you first have to start with
color and you have to start with colors
that are going to play well together I
would say you start with a really good
blue red and yellow and those three
colors are happy playing together if you
purchase the ones that are made from the
chemistry lab I would look in my book
acrylic solutions and you'll find a
great list I think I offer three
variations on a red blue yellow that
will give you that and then you want to
purchase a couple of products certainly
you need a medium and acrylic glazing
liquid which i think is absolutely
essential for learning to paint because
regardless of the weather you're in
especially if you're in very warm
climates and your paint dries up very
fast that will help you extend the life
of your paints as far as another medium
I would say you need a soft gel is
always good because it can be used as a
collage glue or it can be used to create
a fast drying glaze that's got a little
body to it and you can extend paints
with it another good thing and the last
would be a texture product of some kind
something that appeals to you you can go
into the store and actually feel them
just pick one don't you like that
use to you you can go a long way with
just those few things a couple of
brushes and some water
you